Add upgrade notice for 1.2 (#4471)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/setup/kubernetes/upgrade/notice/index.md

---
title: 1.2 Upgrade Notice
description: Important changes operators must understand before upgrading to Istio 1.2.
weight: 5
---

This page describes changes you need to be aware of when upgrading from Istio 1.1 to 1.2.  Here we detail
cases where we intentionally broke backwards compatibility.  We also mention cases where backwards
compatibility was preserved but new behavior was introduced that would be surprising to someone
familiar with the use and operation of Istio 1.1.

For an overview of new features introduced with Istio 1.2, please refer to the [1.2 release notes](/about/notes/1.2/).

## Installation

> - Most mixer CRDs were removed from the system to consolidate the CRD definitions in one data model.

Reviewer: nits:
- I _think_ we were capitalizing Mixer. 
- We don't need `definitions` after CRD (as the D stands for definition).
- We might want to change the wording to reflect `simplification of the configuration model`.

It might be worth mentioning that the old style configuration was deprecated in the last release (1.1.X).

>   In the event you are using a mixer plugin that has not transitioned to the new mixer data model,

Reviewer 2: @douglas-reid can u pls confirm this only applies if user is using the old mixer model for their plugin?

Reviewer: As I confirmed elsewhere, these flags only matter if you are still using the deprecated configuration schemas for Mixer.

Reviewer 2: @sdake I chatted with Doug offline, so this helm flag is only needed when users aren't using any of the 6 CRDs:  

-  adapter, attributemanifest, and template for Istio extension declarations;
- handler, rule, and instance for specifying extension invocations.

Author: @linsun - do you want me to add that level of detail to the notice?  

Something like
"In the event you are using any of the Mixer CRDs that are not `adapter`, `attributemanifest`, `template` for Istio declarations; or `handler`, `rule, and `instance` for specifying extension invocations, this flag must be used.

Reviewer 2: Yes, that would be awesome!

---
title: 1.2 Upgrade Notice
description: Important changes operators must understand before upgrading to Istio 1.2.
weight: 5
---

This page describes changes you need to be aware of when upgrading from

> Istio 1.1 to 1.2.  Here we detail cases where we intentionally broke backwards

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Istio 1.1 to 1.2.  Here, we detail cases where we intentionally broke backwards
```

Author: done.

compatibility.  We also mention cases where backwards compatibility was
preserved but new behavior was introduced that would be surprising to someone
familiar with the use and operation of Istio 1.1.

For an overview of new features introduced with Istio 1.2, please refer to the [1.2 release notes](/about/notes/1.2/).

## Installation and Upgrade

{{< tip >}}
The vast array of Mixer plugins were deprecated in Istio 1.1.  Please move

> to the new configuration model quickly, as the old configuration model has

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to the new configuration model quickly, since we removed the old configuration model
```

Author: done.

> model Istio 1.2.0.

Reviewer 2: model in Istio 1.2.

Also, is there a link we can link to array of mixer plugins were deprecated?

Author: no clue re mixer plugins deprecated.  If someone has a link, can add as a followup...

Author: fixed.

> been removed in Istio 1.2.0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in Istio 1.2.0.
```

Author: this suggested change doesn't make any sense?

Author: done.

Reviewer 4: We don't call it Istio 1.2.0. It's just Istio 1.2.

---
title: 1.2 Upgrade Notice
description: Important changes operators must understand before upgrading to Istio 1.2.
weight: 5
---

This page describes changes you need to be aware of when upgrading from
Istio 1.1 to 1.2.  Here, we detail cases where we intentionally broke backwards
compatibility.  We also mention cases where backwards compatibility was
preserved but new behavior was introduced that would be surprising to someone
familiar with the use and operation of Istio 1.1.

For an overview of new features introduced with Istio 1.2, please refer
to the [1.2 release notes](/about/notes/1.2/).

## Installation and Upgrade

{{< tip >}}

> The vast array of Mixer plugins were deprecated in Istio 1.1.  Please move

Reviewer: I know this is late (it was impossible to keep up with the constant changes to all of the docs), but i have concerns over coupling adapter deprecation with the configuration model. I also have concerns around the use of the word `plugins`.

IMHO, this warning should be restricted to configuration only. Discussion of deprecating adapters is reasonable, but deserves a lot more context and explanation (to match the config discussion below).

```
The configuration model for Mixer has been simplified. Support for adapter-specific and template-specific Custom Resources has been removed by default in 1.2 and will be removed entirely in 1.3. 
Please move to the new configuration model.
```

@geeknoid thoughts?

Reviewer 5: I was also surprised by the phrasing. I don't think we definitely the term plugin in our docs, which makes the statement ambiguous.

Author: @douglas-reid I will submit a PR to fix the warning now.

Author: https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/4492

{{< tip >}}
The vast array of Mixer plugins were deprecated in Istio 1.1.  Please move
to the new configuration model quickly, as the old configuration model has
been removed in Istio 1.2.0.
{{< /tip >}}

Most Mixer CRDs were removed from the system to simplify the configuration
model, improve performance of Mixer when used with Kubernetes, and improve
reliability in a variety of Kubernetes environments.

The following CRDs remain:

| Custom Resource Definition name | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `adapter`| Specification of Istio extension declarations |
| `attributemanifest` | Specification of Istio extension declarations |
| `template` | Specification of Istio extension declarations |
| `handler` | Specification of extension invocations |
| `rule` | Specification of extension invocations |
| `instance` | Specification of extension invocations |

In the event you are using the removed mixer configuration schemas, set
the following Helm flags during upgrade of the main Helm chart:
`--set mixer.templates.useTemplateCRDs=true --set mixer.adapters.useAdapterCRDs=true`

## Security

{{< tip >}}
Istio 1.0's `RbacConfig` was deprecated in Istio 1.1.  It has been replaced

> with a new custom resource `ClusterRbacConfig` in Istio 1.2.0.

Reviewer 6: `ClusterRbacConfig` is introduced in 1.1, not 1.2

Reviewer 2: good catch, probably should remove this.

{{< /tip >}}

> - In Istio 1.2 the `RbacConfig` custom resource is replaced by the `ClusterRbacConfig`

Reviewer 6: Same here.

Author: why are we documenting 1.1 changes in the 1.2 upgrade notes?

Reviewer 2: should be removed :)

Reviewer 4: We still want to describe how customers can upgrade from 1.0 to 1.2.
